Docs for new Certificate auth (#12796)
aspnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/security/authentication/certauth.md

---
title: Configure certificate authentication in ASP.NET Core
author: blowdart
description: Learn how to configure certificate authentication in ASP.NET Core for IIS and HTTP.sys.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-3.0'
ms.author: barry.dorrans
ms.date: 06/11/2019
uid: security/authentication/certauth
---
# Overview

`Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.Certificate` contains an implementation similar to [Certificate Authentication](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5246#section-7.4.4) for ASP.NET Core. Certificate authentication happens at the TLS level, long before it ever gets to ASP.NET Core. More accurately, this is an authentication handler that validates the certificate and then gives you an event where you can resolve that certificate to a `ClaimsPrincipal`. 

[Configure your host](#configure-your-host-to-require-certificates) for certificate authentication, be it IIS, Kestrel, Azure Web Apps, or whatever else you're using.

## Get started

Acquire an HTTPS certificate, apply it, and [configure your host](#configure-your-host-to-require-certificates) to require certificates.

> In your web app, add a reference to the package. Then in the `Startup.Configure` method, call

Reviewer: What package? We should call it out here.

Author: Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.Certificate added

monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-3.0'
ms.author: barry.dorrans
ms.date: 06/10/2019
uid: security/authentication/certauth
---
# Overview

`Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.Certificate` sort of contains an implementation of [Certificate Authentication](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5246#section-7.4.4) for ASP.NET Core. 
Certificate authentication happens at the TLS level, long before it ever gets to ASP.NET Core, so, more accurately this is an authentication handler
that validates the certificate and then gives you an event where you can resolve that certificate to a ClaimsPrincipal. 

You **must** [configure your host](#hostConfiguration) for certificate authentication, be it IIS, Kestrel, Azure Web Applications or whatever else you're using.

## Getting started

First acquire an HTTPS certificate, apply it and then [configure your host](#hostConfiguration) to require certificates.

In your web application add a reference to the package, then in the `ConfigureServices` method in `startup.cs` call
`app.AddAuthentication(CertificateAuthenticationDefaults.AuthenticationScheme).UseCertificateAuthentication(...);` with your options, 

> providing a delegate for `OnValidateCertificate` to validate the client certificate sent with requests and turn that information 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
providing a delegate for `OnCertificateValidated` to do any supplementary validation on the client certificate sent with requests and turn that information 
```

> into an `ClaimsPrincipal`, set it on the `context.Principal` property and call `context.Success()`.

Reviewer 2: Success is optional, might as well leave it out.

> If you change your scheme name in the options for the authentication handler you need to change the scheme name in 

Reviewer 2: This isn't cert auth specific, remove or move to a generic auth doc?

`AddAuthentication()` to ensure it's used on every request which ends in an endpoint that requires authorization.

If authentication fails this handler will return a `403 (Forbidden)` response rather a `401 (Unauthorized)` as you
might expect - this is because the authentication should happen during the initial TLS connection - by the time it 
reaches the handler it's too late, and there's no way to actually upgrade the connection from an anonymous connection 
to one with a certificate.

> You must also add `app.UseAuthentication();` in the `Configure` method, otherwise nothing will ever get called.

Reviewer 2: This middleware isn't dependent on UseAuthentication, [Authorize] and AuthenticateAsync would work fine without it, no?

Author: Well in this case Cert is being specified as the default so the middleware takes care of that.  I can clarify the last bit

For example;

```c#
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddAuthentication(CertificateAuthenticationDefaults.AuthenticationScheme)
            .AddCertificate();
    // All the other service configuration.
}

public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IHostingEnvironment env)
{
    app.UseAuthentication();

    // All the other app configuration.
}
```

In the sample above you can see the default way to add certificate authentication. The handler will construct a user principal using the common certificate properties for you.

## Configuring Certificate Validation

The `CertificateAuthenticationOptions` handler has some built in validations that are the minimium validations you should perform on 
a certificate. Each of these settings are turned on by default.

> ### ValidateCertificateChain

Author: @blowdart I don't see any setting like this in the Options class unlike the other ones, is this gone?

Reviewer 3: It moved to  CertificateTypes AllowedCertificateTypes { get; set; } = CertificateTypes.Chained, because if it's chained you should be trusting the chain

Author: Ok will update

### ValidateCertificateUse

This check validates that the certificate presented by the client has the Client Authentication 
extended key use, or no EKUs at all (as the specifications say if no EKU is specified then all EKUs 
are valid). 

### ValidateValidityPeriod

This check validates that the certificate is within its validity period. As the handler runs on every 
request this ensures that a certificate that was valid when it was presented has not expired during
its current session.

### RevocationFlag

A flag which specifies which certificates in the chain are checked for revocation.

Revocation checks are only performed when the certificate is chained to a root certificate.

### RevocationMode 

A flag which specifies how revocation checks are performed.
Specifying an on-line check can result in a long delay while the certificate authority is contacted.

Revocation checks are only performed when the certificate is chained to a root certificate.

### Can I configure my application to require a certificate only on certain paths?

Not possible, remember the certificate exchange is done that the start of the HTTPS conversation, 

> it's done by the host, not the application. Kestrel, IIS, Azure Web Apps don't have any configuration for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 by the server before the first request is received on that connection so it's not possible to scope based on any request fields.
```

this sort of thing.

# Handler events

> The handler has two events, `OnAuthenticationFailed()`, which is called if an exception happens during authentication and allows you to react, and `OnValidateCertificate()` which is 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The handler has two events, `OnAuthenticationFailed()`, which is called if an exception happens during authentication and allows you to react, and `OnCertificateValidated()` which is 
```

> called after certificate has been validated, passed validation, abut before the default principal has been created. This allows you to perform your own validation, for example 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
called after certificate has passed validation and a default principal has been created. This allows you to perform your own validation and augment or replace the principal. For example 
```

                {
                    var validationService =
                        context.HttpContext.RequestServices.GetService<ICertificateValidationService>();
                    
                    if (validationService.ValidateCertificate(context.ClientCertificate))
                    {
                        var claims = new[]
                        {
                            new Claim(ClaimTypes.NameIdentifier, context.ClientCertificate.Subject, ClaimValueTypes.String, context.Options.ClaimsIssuer),
                            new Claim(ClaimTypes.Name, context.ClientCertificate.Subject, ClaimValueTypes.String, context.Options.ClaimsIssuer)
                        };

                        context.Principal = new ClaimsPrincipal(new ClaimsIdentity(claims, context.Scheme.Name));
                        context.Success();
                    }                     

                    return Task.CompletedTask;
                }
            };
        });
```
Note that conceptually the validation of the certification is an authorization concern, and putting a check on, for example, an issuer or thumbprint in an authorization policy rather 

> than inside OnCertificateValidated() is perfectly acceptable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
than inside OnCertificateValidated() is perfectly acceptable.
```

## <a name="hostConfiguration"></a>Configuring your host to require certificates

### Kestrel

In program.cs configure `UseKestrel()` as follows.

```c#
public static IWebHost BuildWebHost(string[] args)
    => WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
    .UseStartup<Startup>()
    .ConfigureKestrel(options =>
    {
        options.ConfigureHttpsDefaults(opt =>
        {
            opt.ClientCertificateMode = ClientCertificateMode.RequireCertificate;
        });
    })
    .Build();
```

> You must set the `ClientCertificateValidation` delegate to `CertificateValidator.DisableChannelValidation` in order to stop Kestrel using the default OS certificate validation routine and, 

Reviewer 2: CertificateValidator.DisableChannelValidation was deleted...

instead, letting the authentication handler perform the validation.

### IIS

In the IIS Manager 

1. Select your Site in the Connections tab.
2. Double click the SSL Settings in the Features View window.
3. Check the `Require SSL` Check Box and select the `Require` radio button under Client Certificates.

![Client Certificate Settings in IIS](README-IISConfig.png "Client Certificate Settings in IIS")

### Azure

See the [Azure documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/app-service-web-configure-tls-mutual-auth) 
to configure Azure Web Apps then add the following to your application startup method, `Configure(IApplicationBuilder app)` add the 
following line before the call to `app.UseAuthentication();`

```c#

> app.UseCertificateHeaderForwarding();

Reviewer 2: Options will be needed for this. Update https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/host-and-deploy/proxy-load-balancer?view=aspnetcore-2.2 to cover this and link to it rather than covering here.

Author: Added the link and updated the other doc

```

> ### Random custom web proxies

Reviewer 2: Move all of this to the proxy doc as well.
